static typing is when type checking is performed on compile time as opposed to run-time
four pillars of object oriented developement: encalpsulation, data hhiding, inheritance, polymorphism
the standardc++  consists of three parts: 1. the ocre language including variables data types and literals, 2 the standard library giving a richt set of functions manipulating files string etc, 3 the standard template library (STL) giving a rich set of maethods manipulating data structures etc.
keywords in c++: asm, auto, bool, break, case, catch, char, class, const, const_cast, continue, default, delete, do, double, dynamic_cast, else, enum explicit, extern, false, float, for, friend , goto, if ,inline, int, long, mutable, namespace, new , operator, private, protected, public, register, reinterpret_cast, return, short, signed, sizeof, static, static_cast, struct, switch, template, this, throw, true, try, typedef, typeid, typename, union, unisnged, using, virtual, void, volatile, wchar_t, while
trigraphs are three-charactes sequences that represent a single characted and the sequence alwats starts with two question marks: ??=  #, ??/ \, ??' ^, ??( [, ??) ], ??!  |, ??< {, ??> }, ??-  ~
primitive built- in Types:  Boolean bool, Character char, Integer int, floating point  float, double floating point double, Valueless void, wide character wchar_t
several of the basic types van be modified using one or more of these type modifiers: signed, unsigned, short, long
 there are two kinds of experssions in C++: lvalue =  expressions that refer to a memory location. an lvalue may epear as either the left-hand or right hand side of an assignment. rvalue =  refers to a data value that is stored at some address in memory. an rvalue is an epxression that cannot have a value assigned to which means an rvalue may appear on the right but not left hand side of an assigment. Variables are lvaues ans so may appear on the left hand side of an assignment. Numeric literals are rvalues and so may not be assigned and can not appear on the left hand side.
 a scope is a region  of the program and boradly speaking there are three places where variables can be declared: 1. inside a function or block which is called local variables, 2. in the definition of function parameters which is called formal parameters, 3 outside of all functions which is called global variables.
local variables have to be initialized within its scope, a global variable is alwatys initialized as zero (or type equivalent)
 constants, also called literals, can be of any baisc datat type and can be divided into integer, numerals, floating point numerals, characters, string and boolean values
 integer literals -- can be decimal, octal or hexadecimal. A prefix specifies the base or 'radix': 0x or oX for hexadecimal, 0 for octal, and nothing for decimal. An integer literal can also have a suffic that is a comibnation of U and L, for unsigned and long, respecitively, The suffix can be uppercase or lowercase and can be in any order.
